README.md, before:

# Python software for image processing

This folder contains Python software implementation of the MATLAB salient region detection code as part of the [image processing part of eStep](https://www.esciencecenter.nl/technology/expertise/computer-vision). The software conforms with the [eStep standarts](https://github.com/NLeSC/estep-checklist).
The source code documentation can be found [here](http://nlesc.github.io/SalientDetector-python/)

It contains sub-folders:

## Notebooks
SeveraliPython notebooks testing and illustrating major functionality.

## salientregions
The code implementing salient region detection functionality.

## tests
Unit tests for the code in salientregions.

# Installation
## Prerequisites
* Python 2.7
* pip
* [conda](http://conda.pydata.org/docs/) . If you don't want to use conda, you need to build and install [opencv 3.1.0](http://opencv-python-tutroals.readthedocs.org/en/latest/py_tutorials/py_setup/py_table_of_contents_setup/py_table_of_contents_setup.html#py-table-of-content-setup) manually. 


## Installing the package
If desired, activate an virtual environment. To build the package, type the following command in the current directory (`Software/Python/`):

`make`

To install the package `salientregions`  in your environment:

`make install`

If you want to run tests, you need to pull the test images from this git repository using [git lfs](https://git-lfs.github.com/). To perform tests:

`make test`

Commit message:

Added Getting Started to readme file

README.md, after:

# Python software for image processing

This folder contains a Python  implementation of the Salient Region Detector code as part of the [image processing part of eStep](https://www.esciencecenter.nl/technology/expertise/computer-vision). The software conforms with the [eStep standarts](https://github.com/NLeSC/estep-checklist).

The original MATLAB implementation can be found at [this repository](https://github.com/NLeSC/LargeScaleImaging)

The repository contains the following sub-folders:

## Notebooks
SeveraliPython notebooks testing and illustrating major functionality.

## salientregions
The code implementing salient region detection functionality.

## tests
Unit tests for the code in salientregions.

# Installation
## Prerequisites
* Python 2.7
* pip
* [conda](http://conda.pydata.org/docs/) . If you don't want to use conda, you need to build and install [opencv 3.1.0](http://opencv-python-tutroals.readthedocs.org/en/latest/py_tutorials/py_setup/py_table_of_contents_setup/py_table_of_contents_setup.html#py-table-of-content-setup) manually. 


## Installing the package
If desired, activate an virtual environment. To build the package, type the following command in the root directory of the repository:

`make`

To install the package `salientregions`  in your environment:

`make install`

To perform tests:

`make test`

# Getting started
The source code documentation can be found [here](http://nlesc.github.io/SalientDetector-python/)

This code makes heavily use of the OpenCV library, so in order to understand how the code works, it helps to have a look at the [OpenCV Documentation](http://docs.opencv.org/3.1.0/). 

## images
In OpenCV, images are represented as numpy arrays. Grayscale images are represented by a 2-dimensional array. Color images have a third dimension for the color channel. The Salient Region Detector has a few simplifying assumptions:
* Color images have BGR channels
* Images are assumed to be 8-bit. This is also the case for binary images, so they only have values of 0 and 255.

## Detector object
The complete functionality of the salient region detectors are found in the Detector object. The SalientDetector implements DMSR detection, and MSSRDetector implements MSSR detection (see referred papers for more information)
An example of how to use the Detector can be found in [this iPython Notebook](https://github.com/NLeSC/SalientDetector-python/blob/master/Notebooks/Detector_objects.ipynb).

# References
TODO
